windows/deployment/do/mcc-enterprise-appendix.md, before:

---
title: Appendix for Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education
description: This article contains reference information for Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education.
ms.service: windows-client
ms.subservice: itpro-updates
ms.topic: reference
ms.author: carmenf
author: cmknox
manager: aaroncz
ms.reviewer: mstewart
ms.collection:
  - tier3
  - must-keep
appliesto: 
- ✅ <a href=https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client target=_blank>Windows 11</a>
- ✅ <a href=https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client target=_blank>Windows 10</a>
- ✅ <a href=https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/deployment/do/waas-microsoft-connected-cache target=_blank>Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education</a>
ms.date: 05/23/2024
---

# Appendix

## Steps to obtain an Azure subscription ID

<!--Using include file, get-azure-subscription.md, do/mcc-isp.md for shared content-->
[!INCLUDE [Get Azure subscription](includes/get-azure-subscription.md)]

### Troubleshooting

If you're not able to sign up for a Microsoft Azure subscription with the **Account belongs to a directory that cannot be associated with an Azure subscription. Please sign in with a different account.** error, see the following articles:

- [Can't sign up for a Microsoft Azure subscription](/troubleshoot/azure/general/cannot-sign-up-subscription).
- [Troubleshoot issues when you sign up for a new account in the Azure portal](/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/troubleshoot-azure-sign-up).

## Hardware specifications

Most customers choose to install their cache node on a Windows Server with a nested Hyper-V VM. If this isn't supported in your network, some customers have also opted to install their cache node using VMware. At this time, a Linux-only solution isn't available and Azure VMs don't support the standalone Microsoft Connected Cache.

### Installing on VMware

Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education can be successfully installed on VMware. To do so, there are a couple of additional configurations to be made. Ensure the VM is turned off before making the following configuration changes:

1. Ensure that you're using ESX. In the VM settings, turn on the option **Expose hardware assisted virtualization to the guest OS**.
1. Using the Hyper-V Manager, create an external switch. For the external switch to have internet connection, ensure **"Allow promiscuous mode"** and **"Forged transmits"** are switched to **Yes**.

### Installing on Hyper-V

To learn more about how to configure Intel and AMD processors to support nested virtualization, see [Run Hyper-V in a Virtual Machine with Nested Virtualization](/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization).

## Diagnostics Script

If you're having issues with your Microsoft Connected Cache, we included a diagnostics script. The script collects all your logs and zips them into a single file. You can then send us these logs via email for the Connected Cache team to debug.

To run this script:

1. Navigate to the following folder in the Connected Cache installation files:

    mccinstaller > Eflow > Diagnostics

1. Run the following commands:

   ```powershell
   Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Scope Process
   .\collectMccDiagnostics.ps1
   ```

1. The script stores all the debug files into a folder and then creates a tar file. After the script is finished running, it will output the path of the tar file, which you can share with us. The location should be **\<currentpath\>**\mccdiagnostics\support_bundle_\$timestamp.tar.gz

1. [Email the Connected Cache team](mailto:mccforenterprise@microsoft.com?subject=Debugging%20Help%20Needed%20for%20MCC%20for%20Enterprise) and attach this file asking for debugging support. Screenshots of the error along with any other warnings you saw will be helpful during out debugging process.

## IoT Edge runtime

The Azure IoT Edge runtime enables custom and cloud logic on IoT Edge devices.
The runtime sits on the IoT Edge device, and performs management and
communication operations. The runtime performs several functions:

- Installs and update workloads (Docker containers) on the device.
- Maintains Azure IoT Edge security standards on the device.
- Ensures that IoT Edge modules (Docker containers) are always running.
- Reports module (Docker containers) health to the cloud for remote monitoring.
- Manages communication between an IoT Edge device and the cloud.

For more information on Azure IoT Edge, see the [Azure IoT Edge documentation](/azure/iot-edge/about-iot-edge).

## Routing local Windows clients to a Connected Cache

### Get the IP address of your Connected Cache using ifconfig

There are multiple methods that can be used to apply a policy to PCs that should participate in downloading from the Connected Cache.

#### Registry key

You can either set your Connected Cache IP address or FQDN using:

1. Registry key (version 1709 and later):  
    `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeliveryOptimization`
</br>
    "DOCacheHost"=" "  

    From an elevated command prompt:

    ```powershell
        reg add "HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeliveryOptimization" /v DOCacheHost /t REG_SZ /d "10.137.187.38" /f
    ```

1. MDM path (version 1809 and later):

    `.Vendor/MSFT/Policy/Config/DeliveryOptimization/DOCacheHost`

1. In Windows (release version 1809 and later), you can apply the policy via Group Policy Editor. The policy to apply is **DOCacheHost**. To configure the clients to pull content from the Connected Cache using Group Policy, go to **Computer Configuration** > **Administrative Templates** > **Windows Components** > **Delivery Optimization**. Set the **Cache Server Hostname** to the IP address of your Connected Cache, such as `10.137.187.38`.

   :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-group-policy-hostname.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Group Policy editor showing the Cache Server Hostname Group Policy setting." lightbox="./images/ent-mcc-group-policy-hostname.png":::

## Verify content using the DO client

To verify that the Delivery Optimization client can download content using Connected Cache, you can use the following steps:

1. Download a game or application from the Microsoft Store.

   :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-store-example-download.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Microsoft Store with the game, Angry Birds 2, selected.":::

1. Verify downloads came from Connected Cache by one of two methods:

    - Using the PowerShell Cmdlet Get-DeliveryOptimizationStatus you should see *BytesFromCacheServer*.

      :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-get-deliveryoptimizationstatus.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the output of Get-DeliveryOptimization | FT from PowerShell." lightbox="./images/ent-mcc-get-deliveryoptimizationstatus.png":::

    - Using the Delivery Optimization Activity Monitor

      :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-delivery-optimization-activity.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Delivery Optimization Activity Monitor.":::

## EFLOW

- [What is Azure IoT Edge for Linux on Windows](/azure/iot-edge/iot-edge-for-linux-on-windows)
- [Install Azure IoT Edge for Linux on Windows](/azure/iot-edge/how-to-provision-single-device-linux-on-windows-symmetric#install-iot-edge)
- [PowerShell functions for Azure IoT Edge for Linux on Windows](/azure/iot-edge/reference-iot-edge-for-linux-on-windows-functions)
- EFLOW FAQ and Support: [Support · Azure/iotedge-eflow Wiki (github.com)](https://github.com/Azure/iotedge-eflow/wiki/Support#how-can-i-apply-updates-to-eflow)
- [Now ready for Production: Linux IoT Edge Modules on Windows - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgqVCg6cxVU&ab_channel=MicrosoftIoTDevelopers)

Commit message:

Add MCC DHCP Option
Added a section here, possibly incomplete by your standards, that call out that there's a DHCP option to point endpoints at the MCC server. I think that's important to call out here in the MCC docs.

windows/deployment/do/mcc-enterprise-appendix.md, after:

---
title: Appendix for Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education
description: This article contains reference information for Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education.
ms.service: windows-client
ms.subservice: itpro-updates
ms.topic: reference
ms.author: carmenf
author: cmknox
manager: aaroncz
ms.reviewer: mstewart
ms.collection:
  - tier3
  - must-keep
appliesto: 
- ✅ <a href=https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client target=_blank>Windows 11</a>
- ✅ <a href=https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/release-health/supported-versions-windows-client target=_blank>Windows 10</a>
- ✅ <a href=https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/deployment/do/waas-microsoft-connected-cache target=_blank>Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education</a>
ms.date: 05/23/2024
---

# Appendix

## Steps to obtain an Azure subscription ID

<!--Using include file, get-azure-subscription.md, do/mcc-isp.md for shared content-->
[!INCLUDE [Get Azure subscription](includes/get-azure-subscription.md)]

### Troubleshooting

If you're not able to sign up for a Microsoft Azure subscription with the **Account belongs to a directory that cannot be associated with an Azure subscription. Please sign in with a different account.** error, see the following articles:

- [Can't sign up for a Microsoft Azure subscription](/troubleshoot/azure/general/cannot-sign-up-subscription).
- [Troubleshoot issues when you sign up for a new account in the Azure portal](/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/troubleshoot-azure-sign-up).

## Hardware specifications

Most customers choose to install their cache node on a Windows Server with a nested Hyper-V VM. If this isn't supported in your network, some customers have also opted to install their cache node using VMware. At this time, a Linux-only solution isn't available and Azure VMs don't support the standalone Microsoft Connected Cache.

### Installing on VMware

Microsoft Connected Cache for Enterprise and Education can be successfully installed on VMware. To do so, there are a couple of additional configurations to be made. Ensure the VM is turned off before making the following configuration changes:

1. Ensure that you're using ESX. In the VM settings, turn on the option **Expose hardware assisted virtualization to the guest OS**.
1. Using the Hyper-V Manager, create an external switch. For the external switch to have internet connection, ensure **"Allow promiscuous mode"** and **"Forged transmits"** are switched to **Yes**.

### Installing on Hyper-V

To learn more about how to configure Intel and AMD processors to support nested virtualization, see [Run Hyper-V in a Virtual Machine with Nested Virtualization](/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization).

## Diagnostics Script

If you're having issues with your Microsoft Connected Cache, we included a diagnostics script. The script collects all your logs and zips them into a single file. You can then send us these logs via email for the Connected Cache team to debug.

To run this script:

1. Navigate to the following folder in the Connected Cache installation files:

    mccinstaller > Eflow > Diagnostics

1. Run the following commands:

   ```powershell
   Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Scope Process
   .\collectMccDiagnostics.ps1
   ```

1. The script stores all the debug files into a folder and then creates a tar file. After the script is finished running, it will output the path of the tar file, which you can share with us. The location should be **\<currentpath\>**\mccdiagnostics\support_bundle_\$timestamp.tar.gz

1. [Email the Connected Cache team](mailto:mccforenterprise@microsoft.com?subject=Debugging%20Help%20Needed%20for%20MCC%20for%20Enterprise) and attach this file asking for debugging support. Screenshots of the error along with any other warnings you saw will be helpful during out debugging process.

## IoT Edge runtime

The Azure IoT Edge runtime enables custom and cloud logic on IoT Edge devices.
The runtime sits on the IoT Edge device, and performs management and
communication operations. The runtime performs several functions:

- Installs and update workloads (Docker containers) on the device.
- Maintains Azure IoT Edge security standards on the device.
- Ensures that IoT Edge modules (Docker containers) are always running.
- Reports module (Docker containers) health to the cloud for remote monitoring.
- Manages communication between an IoT Edge device and the cloud.

For more information on Azure IoT Edge, see the [Azure IoT Edge documentation](/azure/iot-edge/about-iot-edge).

## Routing local Windows clients to a Connected Cache

### Get the IP address of your Connected Cache using ifconfig

There are multiple methods that can be used to apply a policy to PCs that should participate in downloading from the Connected Cache.

#### Registry key

You can either set your Connected Cache IP address or FQDN using:

1. Registry key (version 1709 and later):  
    `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeliveryOptimization`
</br>
    "DOCacheHost"=" "  

    From an elevated command prompt:

    ```powershell
        reg add "HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeliveryOptimization" /v DOCacheHost /t REG_SZ /d "10.137.187.38" /f
    ```

1. MDM path (version 1809 and later):

    `.Vendor/MSFT/Policy/Config/DeliveryOptimization/DOCacheHost`

1. In Windows (release version 1809 and later), you can apply the policy via Group Policy Editor. The policy to apply is **DOCacheHost**. To configure the clients to pull content from the Connected Cache using Group Policy, go to **Computer Configuration** > **Administrative Templates** > **Windows Components** > **Delivery Optimization**. Set the **Cache Server Hostname** to the IP address of your Connected Cache, such as `10.137.187.38`.

   :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-group-policy-hostname.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Group Policy editor showing the Cache Server Hostname Group Policy setting." lightbox="./images/ent-mcc-group-policy-hostname.png":::

#### DHCP Option 235

To dynamically assign one or more Connected Cache hosts you can configure a custom DHCP option 235 to specify a comma-delimited list of host FQDNs or IP addresses. You must then configure a policy to apply to PCs that configures the DOCacheHostSource policy. For for information see [Delivery Optimization reference](/windows/deployment/do/waas-delivery-optimization-reference#cache-server-hostname-source).

## Verify content using the DO client

To verify that the Delivery Optimization client can download content using Connected Cache, you can use the following steps:

1. Download a game or application from the Microsoft Store.

   :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-store-example-download.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Microsoft Store with the game, Angry Birds 2, selected.":::

1. Verify downloads came from Connected Cache by one of two methods:

    - Using the PowerShell Cmdlet Get-DeliveryOptimizationStatus you should see *BytesFromCacheServer*.

      :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-get-deliveryoptimizationstatus.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the output of Get-DeliveryOptimization | FT from PowerShell." lightbox="./images/ent-mcc-get-deliveryoptimizationstatus.png":::

    - Using the Delivery Optimization Activity Monitor

      :::image type="content" source="./images/ent-mcc-delivery-optimization-activity.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Delivery Optimization Activity Monitor.":::

## EFLOW

- [What is Azure IoT Edge for Linux on Windows](/azure/iot-edge/iot-edge-for-linux-on-windows)
- [Install Azure IoT Edge for Linux on Windows](/azure/iot-edge/how-to-provision-single-device-linux-on-windows-symmetric#install-iot-edge)
- [PowerShell functions for Azure IoT Edge for Linux on Windows](/azure/iot-edge/reference-iot-edge-for-linux-on-windows-functions)
- EFLOW FAQ and Support: [Support · Azure/iotedge-eflow Wiki (github.com)](https://github.com/Azure/iotedge-eflow/wiki/Support#how-can-i-apply-updates-to-eflow)
- [Now ready for Production: Linux IoT Edge Modules on Windows - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgqVCg6cxVU&ab_channel=MicrosoftIoTDevelopers)
